PAUL LEWIS: I don't
know if you've ever
done coding where you do an
awful lot of architecture
and wrangling, and then
people kind of looking over
your shoulder go, so, you know,
what have you been working on?
You're like, well, lots, but
there's nothing really to see.
It's just a lot of
machinery under the hood.
So has it been for
me, with the story
of offline in this
particular app.
The media app has
two offline cases.
One is relatively
standard, I suppose.
That you go to a
video and you say,
I'd like to watch
this one later.
Boop.
And we have to go and download
not only the video, but things
like it's poster frame for the
video element, it's album art,
so we can do the media session
API, it's dash manifest,
all those things.
And you kind of go, yeah.
I'll just get a
bundle of things,
and I'm going to go and get
those, and download them.
And one of the things that
in this area that's still
to land on the platform, for
which Jake has-- and explained
at least, is the
background fetch API.
Wouldn't it be great,
given that list of files
that you want to get, to be
able to hand off to the browser
and say, hey.
Look, these 10 files, would you
mind going off and getting them
for me?
And just fire an event
when that's completed so
that I can decide what to do.
I can put them in a cache,
or I can do whatever
I feel like doing with them.
Well, that's
certainly on the way,
and it doesn't exist right now.
So what I'm doing
is, when you click on
the I want to take this
video offline, I do--
in the page, I do a fetch and
I populate the cache myself.
Now, that is quite a lot of
code in and of itself because--
I'll show you why.
Let me tell you about
the second use case.
That's worth thing.
The second use case is this.
Imagine that you have
watched episode one of a show
that you're interested in,
and episode two is probably
going to be of interest to you.
Maybe you subscribe to
the show or something.
And what we want
to do is while I'm
getting the entirety of episode
two, you don't asked for that,
and that's quite a lot of space.
But what we could
do is maybe just
get the first one minute,
or two minutes of the show
because that kind
of prefetching idea
is good because it means
that, when you hit play, hey,
we can just give
you a flying start.
And we can drop back to the
adaptive network side later on.
And so I've been trying
to tackle both of those.
In this particular
video, I think
what I want to do, is I just
want to talk about the service
worker, and the case of
getting all the video.
The one where you say, I want
to take this video offline
for later.
Let's talk about
approaching that problem.
Now, I'm not going to dive
into every little bit of code.
There are bits and
pieces in there
that are quite-- they
take a while to explain.
And I think it's
probably the case,
if you just look
through the code,
it'd probably make more sense.
But of course, if you do
that and you have questions,
we have the comments below
for you to ask your questions.
So please do feel
free, as always,
to go ahead and do that.
Right.
Enough talking.
Let's look at some codes.
Right.
I am in the point in my app
JS where, thanks to the UI--
in fact, let me show you the UI.
I should have
started there really.
Imagine you are-- let's see.
Got this video of me and Jake
here, and you click this--
we don't need this.
Getting rid of that.
I'm just going to close that.
Yeah, close it, and you'd click
the make available offline
button.
And we start see-- that was
very quick, that was very quick.
I wish the internet was always
that fast for me, but it isn't.
And because it isn't, we
have the offline case.
Ha ha, perfect.
The bit where the
spinning dial, you
know, all that kind of stuff.
Right.
What's actually happening?
So in the app, I
fire an event that
causes this on offline
toggle to be triggered.
And the interesting
bit here is while I
check whether we
actually have the thing,
and if we've already got it,
then do want to remove it,
and so on.
And we'll delete it.
But if you haven't--
which is that case that
we were just looking at--
then we want to
add it to our cash.
And you can see I have
this offline cache class
here when I try
to add this thing.
So that's where the
rubber hits the road.
So we should head
over to that class.
Let me find the actual function.
Here we are.
And it takes in a
bunch of things.
If we don't support
caching, then we just bail.
But we build a set of assets
that we're interested in.
Do you remember I said it was
things like the poster image,
and so on?
In fact, we have them here
in the constants here.
When you go offline, when
you take a video offline,
here's the things
that I currently get.
I get the artwork--
I probably only need one of
these, actually, to be fair.
Anyway, I get both artworks,
a small poster image
and the large poster image.
And I pretend-- so I get
the 720p offline manifest,
which is a reduced
dash manifest,
with just the 720p
video and the audio,
instead of all of
the various options.
But I pretend that it's
called dash manifests.
So when later on I ask Shaka
just get DASH manifest.
If it hasn't got
it stored offline,
it gets the full one with
all the representations.
If it [? has ?]
got installations,
it's just going to
get the 720p one.
That's my way of locking
Shaka into the Shaka player
into only ever playing
the 720p video.
So it builds up the list of
assets that we want to get.
And you'll see I have this
special magical chunking thing
here.
Hmm, right.
This has proved to be quite
the journey, because--
I don't know if you didn't catch
the episode, the entry where
I talked about
the idea that when
we make a request for the video,
we do arrange requests, which
means we don't ask for one gig
of video up front, for example.
We say, I want these
bites to these bites.
I want just this range, like
1000 bytes, or 2000 bytes,
or whatever.
And I said at the time
with my prototype,
this is going to be a bit
of an interesting one later.
Because in production, if
you've got a large video,
you don't want to store
it as one big file
and then pull it out
entirely into memory,
is like a 1 gig array
buffer that you then slice,
for example.
So what I do is as
the file's coming in,
when I'm doing this part
of this downloading of say
the video files,
and the audio files,
I have this chunking file.
Which basically means,
on its way through,
please split this
up into chunks.
Later on in the service worker,
which if we've got time,
I'll show you, I ask for
the chunks that we need.
So for example, I have I think
at the moment half megabyte
chunks.
And so if you asked
for a particular range,
it might be that I need
chunks 9, 10, and 11.
And so I get 9, 10, and 11,
and I create an array buffer
from those three array
buffers, one big one.
And then I slice out from
that array buffer the bit
that you actually asked for.
So it's my way of making
sure that I don't pull out
too much data into memory.
I chose in my chunk size, I
chose half a meg at random,
as a sort of guess that
maybe we'll need two,
maybe three occasionally.
And sort of a meg, meg
and a half in memory.
Yes, it's a bit garbage-y.
No, I don't like it.
But it does mean that I'm not
pulling out a one gig video
into memory every time
we make a request.
I'm not saying
it's always a gig,
but I'm just saying
think big video,
and that would be the problem.
Now, a longer term
solution for this
that I'd love to
see on the platform,
is the ability when
you say caches.match,
and you give it
the URL, that you
could give it some options
besides the cache name.
But you can actually give
it the range as well,
saying do you happen to also
have bites 1000 to 2000?
Or you know, why
[? assume? ?] It does,
if it's got it in there.
But it should--
those kind of things,
you should be able to give
you the answer, right?
As in, no, I don't, because the
file is only 500 bytes long,
or yeah, sure.
Well, a lot of that
needs specking.
It's not a thing
that exists today,
so it's something I'm
actually having to do,
and it's a bit of a pain point.
But there we are.
So wow, just a
chunk true, and that
required a whole
heap of explanation.
See what I mean?
So what does the chunking do?
Well, let's keep going
through the code.
So we build on
this list of assets
that we actually want to push.
And eventually, we get to
the idea of downloading.
And downloading is here.
This is probably one of
the more interesting bits,
because what I do is I
have a thing with which I
call track download--
interesting.
And this actually looks
probably fairly straightforward,
I imagine, to many of you.
Or if you haven't done
service work and stuff,
this will look slightly bizarre.
If you have, it'll make sense.
We open the cache, and we
take whatever the request is
and the response is, and we
just pop that in the cache,
if it's not set to chunk.
If it is, we cache in chunks.
So we seem to be doing two
things with all our responses.
All the things that
we've asked to download,
we're doing two things with.
Firstly, we're tracking
them, and secondly, we're
caching in chunks.
Now, I better not say the
word streams three times
in quick succession because
if I do, Jake will show up.
And I think we can live
without that, don't you?
Shh, OK.
Streams, that's
what we're doing.
Imagine that we've
made a fetch request,
and one of the things we get
back is a readable stream.
At least, you can
in Chrome today.
You can also say
with the response,
you say, give me the JSON,
get me the text, get me
an array buffer.
But you can say--
I want to read this
as a readable stream.
And in order to handle this,
when a response is read,
once it's consumed
actually in this world,
which means you can't do two
things with a single stream.
You can't both say
track a download
and count the
number of bytes that
are passed through the stream,
as well as caching into chunks.
Like read the stream and
chunk it up as it goes.
But you can clone a
response, which is
kind of like teeing a stream.
If you've not done
anything with streams,
the idea is that imagine
that the t-shape,
and it comes up the middle,
and then splits out into two.
It's our way of
taking the stream
and turning it into
two streams, which
is exactly what I'm doing here.
So let's have a look
at what we're doing.
So imagine then, we've got the
video coming down the wire, OK.
We're going to do
two things with it.
One, we're going to
track the download.
Secondly, we're going
to cache it into chunks.
So let's go down to
the track downloads.
Where is that?
Where's track download?
Maybe I should
just look that up.
OK.
For each response, what
I do is I get a reader.
I get a reader.
You can see here,
actually, I clone it.
So that's the first
thing I actually do--
I clone it to make sure
that whatever I do here
on the response
means that it's not
going to be consuming
the response,
and stop it being
used somewhere else.
And the first
thing I do, is when
I get one of these responses
I'll fetch the video,
the fetch comes back and
I go right, clone it.
First of all, clone this.
So that I can now
operate independently
with my clone of the response.
And then I ask for
a reader on there.
So clone.body.getreader,
which is a readable stream.
And then I can
start reading, and I
get-- there's a callback
that you pass to the promise
when that happens.
So you read from the reader, and
then you say, on-stream data,
do this thing.
And it's a bit
convoluted actually,
when you do stuff with this
because you kind of pull
the callback, and
then in the callback,
you setup the next
callback of the callback.
Yes, you do.
So on stream data, we just
say, well, are you done?
If so, you know, if--
blah, blah, blah.
We completed, is
the general idea.
Because one of the things
that's the case here,
is that we've got a byte total.
So remember, I'm getting
like five or six files,
and so the byte total
has to represent
the entire total of all five,
six, however many files.
And so each one
of these responses
is contributing to that total.
And when one of the
streams finishes, it will--
if the byte count isn't
the final byte amount,
well, we don't need
to do anything.
If it is the final
byte amount, we've
actually completed the
download of all our files.
And so we can basically
say, yeah, we're done.
We can call this callback,
which is something
I register somewhere else.
That's like, OK, update the UI,
and all those kinds of things.
So remember now, we've had
the audio file come in,
or the video file come in.
We've read some bytes.
And we basically keep
tracking the length
of each of these reads.
And that allows us to say, well,
how many bytes have actually
come in?
And we can post back to
this on progress callback
with how many bytes we've
got, and how many bytes
we're expecting in total.
And as I say, when
we finish, we can
call this uncomplete that says
right, all the bytes are in,
we're done.
So that's what the
tracking part does.
And that's a great
way of using streams.
I say it's a great way--
it's a garbage-y
way, unfortunately.
Because imagine every time
this callback is called,
this result here,
it's an array buffer.
I believe it's got
lots of bytes in it.
And I don't do anything
with those bytes,
apart from ask for the length.
I would love it if we had some
mechanism with, say a fetch,
to say just give me progress
events like you do with XHR's.
That would be a nice thing.
And I believe it's something,
once again, that my friend
Jake is looking at.
Hurry up, Jake, and whoever
else is working on it.
I have need of it.
I need it.
Anyway, so that's one part.
We're tracking the
download, we basically
ask for all the bytes that are
passing through the stream,
and we post back every
time we get an update,
basically going,
more bytes came in.
And that's what I used
to do, that pie chart.
If we've got time--
probably won't--
if we have time,
I'll quickly show you how
that pie chart's done,
it's pretty neat.
And then the other thing, as I
said, was caching into chunks.
So this was the idea that
instead of a one gig video,
or a half gig video, or a
200 meg video in the cache,
instead, what we want to do is
we actually want to separate it
out into like half made chunks.
And then we can build our
responses in the service worker
later.
So the caching chunks,
once again with cloning
the response, probably don't
technically need to do that.
We could just consume the
response here if we wanted to.
Not dissimilar-- get a reader.
And what we do is we go
through reading in chunks.
And every time we
hit our chunk size,
we commit that particular
chunk into the cache.
That's this commit buffer here.
And then we reduce the amount
that we're expecting still
to come in by that chunk size,
and we kind of restart again.
So we kind of have this
buffer, and we fill it up.
And then when that's
done, we basically
pop that into a response.
Then we reset and go again.
And eventually, we
run out of bytes,
which is the result.done.
And we commit whatever
buffer size we've
got left there at the end.
So I imagine to say
instead of the half meg,
we've ended with like
200 bytes at the end.
We just commit to final buffer
with just those 200 bytes in.
The commit buffer has this.
It has one header that I set,
which is just the chunk size.
Because I need to know later
on about how many chunks
actually--
or the chunk sizes that are
actually stored, in case I've
got a part chunk at the end,
and I need to kind of know,
do you actually
have enough bytes
to satisfy this thing, the
range request that came in?
Anyway, nonetheless, we do
a cache put of that chunk.
Actually, on the front
end, let me show you
what that looks like.
If we go to application, and
we take a look in the cache
storage, you see the
CDS show reel here,
which is the cache for
this particular episode.
And there you go, look.
You can see it's split down
this 720p stream, all the way
zero, one, two.
Don't you just love
stream based ordering?
All the way up to,
what's that, 32?
Yes, into 32 half
megabyte chunks.
Cool.
So that was the first bit.
And you can also see
here, by the way,
there's the artwork
and everything else.
And you see I actually keep one
cache directly for this video.
That means that later
on, it's a lot easier
from my UI perspective.
Because I can say, when
I'm looking at this video,
and I look at it's
URL, I just go,
do you have CDS/showreel,
by the way, caches?
And if the answer is
sure, then I go cool.
I'm going to assume
you have that video.
And so my add and
remove is based
at the kind of cache level.
So when I say get rid of this,
If I remove this offline copy.
Boop.
And then I refresh the
cache storage, refresh it.
There you go, you see that
the entire cache is gone.
But it didn't get in the
way of say, the assets
that I need for all the
icons and everything else.
Cool?
Make sense?
Hopefully all that makes sense.
Also, I have the old
Chrome devs with me
because I was running
out on local host ATAT.
Flashbacks of fun.
Right.
I'm going to stop
there, I think.
In the next entry,
I will actually
show you the
corresponding other side,
which will be the
service worker code.
But before I do, I did say I
was going to show you the dial.
Let me just show you
this here, right?
See this?
When it goes weeeooh, and it
goes round like that in a dial.
How did I do that?
Before we go, I'm going
to show you that really,
really quickly.
It's in the--
[HUMMING] where is it?
Where is it?
The download progress.
Look at this.
It is basically, this is
what actually gets called
by the on progress callback.
The percentage value is
a value between 0 and 1,
which is the bytes count
over the bytes total.
OK?
And it comes in.
And we have a target,
which happens to be an SVG.
And that matters because
what we're actually doing,
is doing an SVG path.
It's a path, it's an SVG path.
And you can see here, what we
do is we take that percentage,
and I do a little bit
of cause and sign work
to figure out what
arc we actually need,
based on the percentage.
So one is a full
revolution, and then it's
some proportion of
that revolution.
So this is something I
didn't know before I actually
started doing this.
I had a sneaking suspicion
that with SVG you
could create paths on the fly.
And I had a sneaking
suspicion that arcs might well
be one of those things.
And you can see here that this
is exactly what I'm doing.
So I find the target,
I find a thing
called path.dial, which is just
a path element inside the SVG.
And I go through, and I create
based on a bit of calculation,
what I think the arc should be.
And it's got weird flags,
like this large arc flag,
and targets, and all the--
have a look at the
documentation on how
to do arcs inside of SVG.
It is slightly bizarre.
I'm much more used to the
canvas way of doing things.
Oh, well.
But this works brilliantly.
So based on the percentage,
I just spin an arc through,
and I just sort of make a
pie chart thing going up.
And then, I set the
attribute, and that
causes the SVG to update.
And it all works
really well, actually
really, I'm very happy.
So this little bit of code
here, all 50 odd lines of it
does the job just great.
And obviously,
means in my UI, it
can give a nice bit of progress
to the user on how well
the download process is going.
So there you have it.
That is the purpose of
downloading the files,
chunking them, using streams,
giving progress, updating
the UI.
We're not even done yet,
because we actually haven't even
responded to the user's
request, or the player's
request for range requests.
Give it a sec, hang on.
Let's try that again.
We haven't even responded to
the video player's range request
coming through the
service worker.
For that one, you'll have
to join me next time.
Now, don't forget
you can subscribe,
don't forget you can
drop in your comments.
As always, thank you so much
for all the feedback, all
the ideas, all the
suggestions, all the comments
that you're making.
I do love reading them
all, and I will catch you--
yep, you guessed it--
next time.
Hello, thanks for watching.
If you enjoyed this
video, well, you
may enjoy other videos
that we make too.
So don't forget
you can subscribe
and you'll get notified when
we push out a new video.
And there's more videos
over there, or down there,
depending on how you're
watching the YouTubes right now.
Definitely click on those.